==========================================================
Getting and Cleaning Data - Introduction to Data Science

Course Project - September 2015

Code Book for Data Set “meandata86.txt” 

Aggregated data created from a subset of variables in the 
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set  
==========================================================


DATA DESCRIPTION:
================The dataset “meandata86” is created from “Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set.” It consists of the averages of the means and standard deviations of time and frequency measures from the signals recorded by 6 different daily activities performed by each subject. The “meandata86” dataset contains a total of 180 observations and 88 variables collected from 30 subjects. A list of the variables included in the dataset is provided in the next section.  In the original experiments conducted by Anguita and associates, a group of 30 volunteers from age 19 to 48 years performed six activities (walking, walking_upstairs, walking_downstairs, sitting, standing, laying) wearing a Samsung Galaxy S II on their waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the researchers captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. In the original database, each record includes: (1) An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.(2) Its activity label.(3) Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration. (4) Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. (5) A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. You can see a video showing how the measurements were taken from a subject here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XOEN9W05_4A
The original dataset has been randomly partitioned into the training and the test data, where 70% of the subjects were selected for generating the training data (7352 observations) and 30% the test data (2947 observations).The “meandata86” consisted of a total of 88 variables and 180 observations. Each observation consists of the averages of the means and standard deviations of the measurements taken from the smartphone. Citation: Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012VARIABLE DESCRIPTION:
====================

Variables 1 and 2:

1. SubjectId (numeric) - the identification of subject

2. ActivityDailyLiving (factor) - one of the 6 everyday activities performed by each subject. Categories include “Walking", "Walking_Upstairs", "Walking_Downstairs", "Sitting", "Standing", "Laying”


Variables 3-88:

Variables 3 to 88 below are all numeric. They are the averages of either the means or standard deviations - denoted by mean() or std() in the variable name accordingly - of each type of measurement taken by each activity of each subject recorded by the Samsung Galaxy S II smartphone. X, Y or Z at the end of the variable name denotes the direction of the 3-axial signals. The variables include measurements of body and gravity acceleration signals, jerk signals measuring the body linear acceleration (BodyAcc) and angular velocity, and signals produced through the application of Fast Fourier Transform (FFT). Additional vectors were obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable in the original dataset. The averages of the angle() variables are also calculated and recorded in Variables 49-55.

Variable names are constructed in the format intended to provide a description of the signal recorded as well as the calculations conducted (e.g. Mean_TimeBodyAcc-mean()-X - average of mean estimated time of body acceleration signals from direction X by activity by subject or Mean_TimeGravityAcc-std()-X - average of the standard deviations of the estimated time of gravity acceleration signals from director X by activity by subject). 

Further documentation on each measurement can be found at http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones. 

 
3.	Mean_TimeBodyAcc-mean()-X4.	Mean_TimeBodyAcc-mean()-Y5.	Mean_TimeBodyAcc-mean()-Z6.	Mean_TimeGravityAcc-mean()-X7.	Mean_TimeGravityAcc-mean()-Y8.	Mean_TimeGravityAcc-mean()-Z9.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerk-mean()-X10.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y11.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z12.	Mean_TimeBodyGyro-mean()-X13.	Mean_TimeBodyGyro-mean()-Y14.	Mean_TimeBodyGyro-mean()-Z15.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X16.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y17.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z18.	Mean_TimeBodyAccMag-mean()19.	Mean_TimeGravityAccMag-mean()20.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerkMag-mean()21.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroMag-mean()22.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()23.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-mean()-X24.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-mean()-Y25.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-mean()-Z26.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X27.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y28.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z29.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-mean()-X30.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y31.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z32.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X33.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y34.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z35.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-mean()-X36.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-mean()-Y37.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-mean()-Z38.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X39.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y40.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z41.	Mean_FreqBodyAccMag-mean()42.	Mean_FreqBodyAccMag-meanFreq()43.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()44.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq()45.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()46.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()47.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()48.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()49.	Mean_Angle(Mean_TimeBodyAccMean,gravity)50.	Mean_Angle(Mean_TimeBodyAccJerkMean),gravityMean)51.	Mean_Angle(Mean_TimeBodyGyroMean,gravityMean)52.	Mean_Angle(Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerkMean,gravityMean)53.	Mean_Angle(X,gravityMean)54.	Mean_Angle(Y,gravityMean)55.	Mean_Angle(Z,gravityMean)56.	Mean_TimeBodyAcc-std()-X57.	Mean_TimeBodyAcc-std()-Y58.	Mean_TimeBodyAcc-std()-Z59.	Mean_TimeGravityAcc-std()-X60.	Mean_TimeGravityAcc-std()-Y61.	Mean_TimeGravityAcc-std()-Z62.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerk-std()-X63.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerk-std()-Y64.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerk-std()-Z65.	Mean_TimeBodyGyro-std()-X66.	Mean_TimeBodyGyro-std()-Y67.	Mean_TimeBodyGyro-std()-Z68.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerk-std()-X69.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y70.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z71.	Mean_TimeBodyAccMag-std()72.	Mean_TimeGravityAccMag-std()73.	Mean_TimeBodyAccJerkMag-std()74.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroMag-std()75.	Mean_TimeBodyGyroJerkMag-std()76.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-std()-X77.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-std()-Y78.	Mean_FreqBodyAcc-std()-Z79.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-std()-X80.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-std()-Y81.	Mean_FreqBodyAccJerk-std()-Z82.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-std()-X83.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-std()-Y84.	Mean_FreqBodyGyro-std()-Z85.	Mean_FreqBodyAccMag-std()86.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()87.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyGyroMag-std()88.	Mean_FreqBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()